# Functions

### 4.1Definition of functions

Function: maps elements from one set X to elements of another set Y.(In discrete math, it can be decimal numbers and their binary representation)

 A function from X to Y can be viewed as a subset of X × Y: **(x, y) ∈ f**  || **f: X → Y ** ||**f(x) = y**

set X: domain of f; set Y: target of f/ co-domain;  

Range of f = { y: (x, y) ∈ f, for some x ∈ X } eg. if **f: X → Y ** then Y is the target of f. Y中可以有不和x对应的元素 range of f: Y中与x有对应值的合集 f(x) = y;

x 对应且只对应一个y **well-defined ** f. 超过或者x没有对应，则f is not well-defined. 但一个y可以对应多个x

for example: g: **R** → **R**, where g(x) = |x|. 作为math function f 可以不+ domain，target，但作为discrete math必须+ domain/function 



**作业中发现的陷阱**

如果f 的domain中有不能pair的x 比如 f: R ->R.  f = 1/ (x^2 -4) 这样， 则f不是function 

for x = 2, x = -2, f(x)  is not defined. 

#### Function Equality

**Definition:**Two functions, f and g, are **equal** if f and g have the same domain and target, and f(x) = g(x) for every element x in the domain. The notation f = g is used to denote the fact that functions f and g are equal.

### 4.2 Properties of functions

A function f: X → Y is **one-to-one** or **injective** if x1 ≠ x2 implies that f(x1) ≠ f(x2).

|X|≤|Y|    a one-to-one function function is one-to-one

A function f: X → Y is **onto** or **surjective** if the range of f is equal to the target Y. That is, for every y ∈ Y, there is an x ∈ X such that f(x) = y.

|X|≥ |Y|   f is onto an onto function

bijective: if a function is both one-to-one and onto

|X|=|Y|

### 4.3 The inverse of a function

The inverse of f is denoted by f^-1: f^-1 = { (y, x) : (x, y) ∈ f }.

A function f has an inverse if and only if f is a bijection.

The inverse of a bijection f can also be expressed in function notation. If f is a bijection from X to Y, then for every x ∈ X and y ∈ Y,

f(x) = y   if and only if   f-1(y) = x.

Therefore the value of f-1(y) is the unique element x ∈ X such that f(x) = y. If f-1 is the inverse of function f, then for every element x ∈ X, f-1(f(x)) = x.

### 4.4 Composition of functions

The process of applying a function to the result of another function is called **composition**.

f and g are two functions, where f: X → Y and g: Y → Z. The composition of g with f, denoted g ο f, is the function (g ο f): X → Z, such that for all x ∈ X, (g ο f)(x) = g(f(x)).

It is possible to compose more than two functions. Composition is associative, so the order in which one composes the functions does not matter:

f ο g ο h = (f ο g) ο h = f ο (g ο h) = f(g(h(x)))

### 4.5 Floor and ceiling function

### 4.6 Logarithms and exponents